README.md, before:

# chainlink-integration
Repo for testing chainlink integration with Conflux Network.

External Initiator: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/external-initiator

External Adapter: https://github.com/Conflux-Network-Global/conflux-network-adapter

Contracts:
* Link Token: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/LinkToken
* Chainlink Example: https://gist.github.com/samsondav/4a0ca9a20afcd2d3e670eeb87780f23a
* Oracle Contract: https://gist.github.com/samsondav/4cc6c6a54c341daf3f9a50957a241a9e
* FluxAggregator: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/evm-contracts/src/v0.6/FluxAggregator.sol

### Folders
* `testTriggerContract`: simple contract that emits an event to trigger oracle
* `chainlinkContractDeploy`: deploying contracts to local docker image using conflux-truffle
* `interactScripts`: scripts for interacting with deployed contracts on conflux network testnet

## Deployment Order

### Contract Deployment Order (Fulfill/Request Model)
1. Deploy LINK token
1. Deploy Oracle (needs LINK token address)
1. Deploy Example (needs LINK token address)
1. Deploy FluxAggregator (needs LINK token address + price feed parameters)

### Deploying the Fulfill/Request Model
1. Set up the Chainlink node, external initiator, and external adapter
1. Provision Example contract with LINK tokens (`provisionRequestContract.js`)
1. Set up fulfillment permissions (`provisionOracleContract.js`)
1. Set up job specs in Chainlink node [Link](./jobSpecs/oracleRequestFulfill.json)
1. Trigger transaction in Example contract (`requestOracle.js`)

### Deploying the Price Feed Model
1. Set up the Chainlink node, ETH to CFX relay, Coingecko adapter, and external adapter
1. Provision the Flux Aggregator with the corresponding addresses (`provisionFluxAggregator.js`)
   * Requires giving permission to Chainlink node address + adapter address (to allow checking + submitting)
1. Set up job specs in Chainlink node [Link](./jobSpecs/fluxAggregator.json)
1. Trigger a round using `triggerFluxAggregator.js` (**still working on automatically triggering new rounds**)

### Testnet Deployment
```
Starting migrations...
======================
> Network name:    'testnet'
> Network id:      10001
> Block gas limit: 30000000 (0x1c9c380)


1_initial_migration.js
======================

   Replacing 'Migrations'
   ----------------------
   > transaction hash:    0x9a1b2cea908eb39c135bf7cdb7caf64e9767ac2707df3cb276f2ee0729af7913
   > Blocks: 16           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x8a241B50A4e3445f76E187e89c3cAaD7BB9B2943
   > block number:        4133052
   > block timestamp:     1606861681
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             347.114640405570783506
   > gas used:            173751 (0x2a6b7)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.00347502 CFX


   > Saving migration to chain.
   > Saving artifacts
   -------------------------------------
   > Total cost:          0.00347502 CFX


2_chainlink.js
==============

   Deploying 'LinkToken'
   ---------------------
   > transaction hash:    0x6ac5f3a60f3d4b8cb39ffd26cd33b6cd52b62a2e81cb487126805868596ef791
   > Blocks: 10           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703
   > block number:        4133088
   > block timestamp:     1606861705
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             343.499640405570783506
   > gas used:            1681003 (0x19a66b)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.03362006 CFX

Link Token:  0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703

   Deploying 'Oracle'
   ------------------
   > transaction hash:    0xaacfa2f71ceacb20c016dec0b32b25abcc24d97fc0841c1904065583ed2f5e23
   > Blocks: 11           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x8e98c9E82E1956fa132360F48E1c75a2DaB9a439
   > block number:        4133107
   > block timestamp:     1606861716
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             339.192140405570783506
   > gas used:            2039728 (0x1f1fb0)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.04079456 CFX


   Deploying 'ChainlinkExample'
   ----------------------------
   > transaction hash:    0x067a084833b4f11a98fe024bdac3932f455c6a8daacb7c9af2a91d69b3ac43da
   > Blocks: 10           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x8D4931C7a274452d1E0aCA0BcB3886178dc379B2
   > block number:        4133125
   > block timestamp:     1606861729
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             335.884640405570783506
   > gas used:            1459685 (0x1645e5)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.0291937 CFX


   Deploying 'FluxAggregator'
   --------------------------
   > transaction hash:    0xb5a3e8b3f9d8409ae9cd6aa190e5f0bec3688ffc8057198558c805b37edeb544
   > Blocks: 11           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x841042eb024008e7A8Ae5277331d2858df4a9368
   > block number:        4133142
   > block timestamp:     1606861742
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             320.851035765570783506
   > gas used:            7930232 (0x790178)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.15860464 CFX


   > Saving migration to chain.
   > Saving artifacts
   -------------------------------------
   > Total cost:          0.26221296 CFX


Summary
=======
> Total deployments:   5
> Final cost:          0.26568798 CFX
```

## Components
### Conflux External Initiator
Used in the Fulfill/Request model
```
./external-initiator "{\"name\":\"cfx-testnet\",\"type\":\"conflux\",\"url\":\"http://test.confluxrpc.org\"}" --chainlinkurl "http://localhost:6688/"
```

### Chainlink Node
```
cd ~/.chainlink-ropsten && docker run -p 6688:6688 -v ~/.chainlink-ropsten:/chainlink -it --env-file=.env smartcontract/chainlink:0.9.6 local n
```

`.env` file for fulfill/request
```
ROOT=/chainlink
LOG_LEVEL=debug
ETH_CHAIN_ID=3
MIN_OUTGOING_CONFIRMATIONS=2
LINK_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703
CHAINLINK_TLS_PORT=0
SECURE_COOKIES=false
ALLOW_ORIGINS=*
DATABASE_TIMEOUT=0
DATABASE_URL=<insert db url>
ETH_DISABLED=true
FEATURE_EXTERNAL_INITIATORS=true
CHAINLINK_DEV=true
```


`.env` file for price feeds
```
ROOT=/chainlink
LOG_LEVEL=debug
ETH_CHAIN_ID=3
MIN_OUTGOING_CONFIRMATIONS=2
LINK_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703
CHAINLINK_TLS_PORT=0
SECURE_COOKIES=false
ALLOW_ORIGINS=*
DATABASE_TIMEOUT=0
DATABASE_URL=<insert db url>
ETH_DISABLED=false
FEATURE_EXTERNAL_INITIATORS=true
CHAINLINK_DEV=true
ETH_URL=ws://172.17.0.1:3000
MINIMUM_CONTRACT_PAYMENT=1
```

### Conflux External Adapter
```
node -e "require(\"dotenv\").config() && require(\"./index.js\").server()"
```
Name: cfxTx  
Address: http://172.17.0.1:5000

### [ETH => CFX Relay](https://github.com/Conflux-Network-Global/eth2cfx-relay)
Relay used to convert ETH API calls to CFX API calls (used in the price feed configuration)

### [Coingecko Adapter](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/external-adapters-js/tree/master/coingecko)
Used in the FluxAggregator + Price Feed Configuration
```
yarn server
```
Adapter: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/external-adapters-js/tree/master/coingecko
Address: http://172.17.0.1:8080

Commit message:

price feed can work, needs proper set up of max submissions to make sure rounds are completed quickly

README.md, after:

# chainlink-integration
Repo for testing chainlink integration with Conflux Network.

External Initiator: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/external-initiator

External Adapter: https://github.com/Conflux-Network-Global/conflux-network-adapter

Contracts:
* Link Token: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/LinkToken
* Chainlink Example: https://gist.github.com/samsondav/4a0ca9a20afcd2d3e670eeb87780f23a
* Oracle Contract: https://gist.github.com/samsondav/4cc6c6a54c341daf3f9a50957a241a9e
* FluxAggregator: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/evm-contracts/src/v0.6/FluxAggregator.sol

### Folders
* `testTriggerContract`: simple contract that emits an event to trigger oracle
* `chainlinkContractDeploy`: deploying contracts to local docker image using conflux-truffle
* `interactScripts`: scripts for interacting with deployed contracts on conflux network testnet

## Deployment Order

### Contract Deployment Order (Fulfill/Request Model)
1. Deploy LINK token
1. Deploy Oracle (needs LINK token address)
1. Deploy Example (needs LINK token address)
1. Deploy FluxAggregator (needs LINK token address + price feed parameters)

### Deploying the Fulfill/Request Model
1. Set up the Chainlink node, external initiator, and external adapter
1. Provision Example contract with LINK tokens (`provisionRequestContract.js`)
1. Set up fulfillment permissions (`provisionOracleContract.js`)
1. Set up job specs in Chainlink node [Link](./jobSpecs/oracleRequestFulfill.json)
1. Trigger transaction in Example contract (`requestOracle.js`)

### Deploying the Price Feed Model
1. Set up the Chainlink node, ETH to CFX relay, Coingecko adapter, and external adapter
1. Provision the Flux Aggregator with the corresponding addresses (`provisionFluxAggregator.js`)
   * Requires giving permission to Chainlink node address + adapter address (to allow checking + submitting)
1. Set up job specs in Chainlink node [Link](./jobSpecs/fluxAggregator.json)
1. Trigger a round using `triggerFluxAggregator.js`

Note:
* New rounds are triggered when the node (using it's own address) detects that the previous round has been fulfilled. This is tricky because the adapter uses a different address to fulfill which the node does not log as its own transaction. In order to automatically trigger new rounds, the maximum submissions must be set low enough for rounds to be completed easily. Therefore, for a single price feed oracle, there will be two addresses (one for reading contract state, one for submitting), but a min and max submission of 1 before the next round is triggered. This allows the node (using it's own address) to see that a round has been completed. If the max was set to 2, the node (by itself) would never trigger a new round because when it checks the contract it would see that its address can still submit. However, it internally has a record that a job run was already completed for that round. Consequently the round number never updates when it checks and it won't trigger new submissions unless another oracle completes the round.

### Testnet Deployment
```
Starting migrations...
======================
> Network name:    'testnet'
> Network id:      10001
> Block gas limit: 30000000 (0x1c9c380)


1_initial_migration.js
======================

   Replacing 'Migrations'
   ----------------------
   > transaction hash:    0x9a1b2cea908eb39c135bf7cdb7caf64e9767ac2707df3cb276f2ee0729af7913
   > Blocks: 16           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x8a241B50A4e3445f76E187e89c3cAaD7BB9B2943
   > block number:        4133052
   > block timestamp:     1606861681
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             347.114640405570783506
   > gas used:            173751 (0x2a6b7)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.00347502 CFX


   > Saving migration to chain.
   > Saving artifacts
   -------------------------------------
   > Total cost:          0.00347502 CFX


2_chainlink.js
==============

   Deploying 'LinkToken'
   ---------------------
   > transaction hash:    0x6ac5f3a60f3d4b8cb39ffd26cd33b6cd52b62a2e81cb487126805868596ef791
   > Blocks: 10           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703
   > block number:        4133088
   > block timestamp:     1606861705
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             343.499640405570783506
   > gas used:            1681003 (0x19a66b)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.03362006 CFX

Link Token:  0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703

   Deploying 'Oracle'
   ------------------
   > transaction hash:    0xaacfa2f71ceacb20c016dec0b32b25abcc24d97fc0841c1904065583ed2f5e23
   > Blocks: 11           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x8e98c9E82E1956fa132360F48E1c75a2DaB9a439
   > block number:        4133107
   > block timestamp:     1606861716
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             339.192140405570783506
   > gas used:            2039728 (0x1f1fb0)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.04079456 CFX


   Deploying 'ChainlinkExample'
   ----------------------------
   > transaction hash:    0x067a084833b4f11a98fe024bdac3932f455c6a8daacb7c9af2a91d69b3ac43da
   > Blocks: 10           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x8D4931C7a274452d1E0aCA0BcB3886178dc379B2
   > block number:        4133125
   > block timestamp:     1606861729
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             335.884640405570783506
   > gas used:            1459685 (0x1645e5)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.0291937 CFX


   Deploying 'FluxAggregator'
   --------------------------
   > transaction hash:    0xb5a3e8b3f9d8409ae9cd6aa190e5f0bec3688ffc8057198558c805b37edeb544
   > Blocks: 11           Seconds: 8
   > contract address:    0x841042eb024008e7A8Ae5277331d2858df4a9368
   > block number:        4133142
   > block timestamp:     1606861742
   > account:             0x15fd1E4F13502b1a8BE110F100EC001d0270552d
   > balance:             320.851035765570783506
   > gas used:            7930232 (0x790178)
   > gas price:           20 GDrip
   > value sent:          0 CFX
   > total cost:          0.15860464 CFX


   > Saving migration to chain.
   > Saving artifacts
   -------------------------------------
   > Total cost:          0.26221296 CFX


Summary
=======
> Total deployments:   5
> Final cost:          0.26568798 CFX
```

## Components
### Conflux External Initiator
Used in the Fulfill/Request model
```
./external-initiator "{\"name\":\"cfx-testnet\",\"type\":\"conflux\",\"url\":\"http://test.confluxrpc.org\"}" --chainlinkurl "http://localhost:6688/"
```

### Chainlink Node
```
cd ~/.chainlink-ropsten && docker run -p 6688:6688 -v ~/.chainlink-ropsten:/chainlink -it --env-file=.env smartcontract/chainlink:0.9.6 local n
```

`.env` file for fulfill/request
```
ROOT=/chainlink
LOG_LEVEL=debug
ETH_CHAIN_ID=3
MIN_OUTGOING_CONFIRMATIONS=2
LINK_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703
CHAINLINK_TLS_PORT=0
SECURE_COOKIES=false
ALLOW_ORIGINS=*
DATABASE_TIMEOUT=0
DATABASE_URL=<insert db url>
ETH_DISABLED=true
FEATURE_EXTERNAL_INITIATORS=true
CHAINLINK_DEV=true
```


`.env` file for price feeds
```
ROOT=/chainlink
LOG_LEVEL=debug
ETH_CHAIN_ID=3
MIN_OUTGOING_CONFIRMATIONS=2
LINK_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x803204BCA4fB5a0aE45bfce47D86C9353752b703
CHAINLINK_TLS_PORT=0
SECURE_COOKIES=false
ALLOW_ORIGINS=*
DATABASE_TIMEOUT=0
DATABASE_URL=<insert db url>
ETH_DISABLED=false
FEATURE_EXTERNAL_INITIATORS=true
CHAINLINK_DEV=true
ETH_URL=ws://172.17.0.1:3000
MINIMUM_CONTRACT_PAYMENT=1
```

### Conflux External Adapter
```
node -e "require(\"dotenv\").config() && require(\"./index.js\").server()"
```
Name: cfxTx  
Address: http://172.17.0.1:5000

### [ETH => CFX Relay](https://github.com/Conflux-Network-Global/eth2cfx-relay)
Relay used to convert ETH API calls to CFX API calls (used in the price feed configuration)

### [Coingecko Adapter](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/external-adapters-js/tree/master/coingecko)
Used in the FluxAggregator + Price Feed Configuration
```
yarn server
```
Adapter: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/external-adapters-js/tree/master/coingecko
Address: http://172.17.0.1:8080
